---
title: "[ESI Highly Cited Paper] Chaos-based block permutation and dynamic sequence multiplexing for video encryption"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/Chaos-based block permutation and dynamic sequence multiplexing for video encryption
excerpt: 'IF:4.6  SCIE  JCR-Q2  中科院3区  \(2023\)'
date: 2023-09-07
venue: 'Scientific Reports'
# slidesurl: 'https://donotwanttogrowup.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://donotwanttogrowup.github.io/files/Chaos-based block permutation and dynamic sequence multiplexing for video encryption.pdf'
citation: 'Wen, H., Lin, Y., Xie, Z., & Liu, T. (2023). Chaos-based block permutation and dynamic sequence multiplexing for video encryption. In Scientific Reports (Vol. 13, Issue 1). Springer Science and Business Media LLC. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-41082-9
'
---

This paper proposes a video security transmission enhancement algorithm based on block permutation and dynamic multiplexing sequences encryption based on 4D autonomous hyperchaotic system. Firstly, we employ the block permutation encryption and diffusion confusion encryption module, which is based on dynamic multiplexing chaotic sequences, to encrypt the plaintext and obtain the ciphertext. Subsequently, the hash value of this round’s ciphertext is utilized to generate the chaotic key, produced by the multiplexing sequence of this round after mathematical processing. Then, the key is used to generate the chaotic sequence to confuse the N-th of the multiplexed sequence, and the next round of multiplexed sequence is obtained. If the current round of chaotic sequence has been completely confused, the chaotic sequence is re-generated to generate a new multiplex sequence by using the key generated by the current round key and the initial key. Finally, the above steps are repeated for the encryption of each frame of the video. Compared with the traditional permutation coding algorithm, it increases the difficulty of estimation or recognition while ensuring efficiency, and effectively improves the avalanche effect of the algorithm. Through frame by frame ciphertext closed-loop feedback, it has the ability to resist known plaintext attack and selected plaintext attack. The results show that the scheme has high security and significant diffusion characteristics, and can effectively resist various common cryptographic attacks.