---
title: "Image Privacy Protection Communication Scheme by Fibonacci Interleaved Diffusion and Non-Degenerate Discrete Chaos"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/Image Privacy Protection Communication Scheme by Fibonacci Interleaved Diffusion and Non-Degenerate Discrete Chaos
excerpt: 'IF:2.0  SCIE  JCR-Q2  中科院3区  \(2025\)'
date: 2025-07-25
venue: 'Entropy '
# slidesurl: 'https://donotwanttogrowup.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://donotwanttogrowup.github.io/files/Image Privacy Protection Communication Scheme by Fibonacci Interleaved Diffusion and Non-Degenerate Discrete Chaos.pdf'
citation: 'Xie, Z., Xie, W., Cheng, X., Yuan, Z., Cheng, W., & Lin, Y. (2025). Image Privacy Protection Communication Scheme by Fibonacci Interleaved Diffusion and Non-Degenerate Discrete Chaos. Entropy, 27(8), 790. https://doi.org/10.3390/e27080790
'
---

The rapid development of network communication technology has led to an increased focus on the security of image storage and transmission in multimedia information. This paper proposes an enhanced image security communication scheme based on Fibonacci interleaved diffusion and non-degenerate chaotic system to address the inadequacy of current image encryption technology. The scheme utilizes a hash function to extract the hash characteristic values of the plaintext image, generating initial perturbation keys to drive the chaotic system to generate initial pseudo-random sequences. Subsequently, the input image is subjected to a light scrambling process at the bit level. The Q matrix generated by the Fibonacci sequence is then employed to diffuse the obtained intermediate cipher image. The final ciphertext image is then generated by random direction confusion. Throughout the encryption process, plaintext correlation mechanisms are employed. Consequently, due to the feedback loop of the plaintext, this algorithm is capable of resisting known-plaintext attacks and chosen-plaintext attacks. Theoretical analysis and empirical results demonstrate that the algorithm fulfils the cryptographic requirements of confusion, diffusion, and avalanche effects, while also exhibiting a robust password space and excellent numerical statistical properties. Consequently, the security enhancement mechanism based on Fibonacci interleaved diffusion and non-degenerate chaotic system proposed in this paper effectively enhances the algorithm’s resistance to cryptographic attacks.